Editorial suggestions from Benjamin Kaduk's IESG review (http) (#4767)
quicwg/base-drafts: draft-ietf-quic-http.md

Within each stream, the basic unit of HTTP/3 communication is a frame
({{frames}}).  Each frame type serves a different purpose.  For example, HEADERS
and DATA frames form the basis of HTTP requests and responses
({{request-response}}).  Frames that apply to the entire connection are

> conveyed on a dedicated control stream.

Author: This subtly hints that control messages are well ordered across each other, in contrast to native QUIC control messages.  I got a bit worried about `MAX_PUSH_ID` on my initial read-through as a result, and knowing about the existence of the control stream earlier would have helped.

Reviewer: The subtlety of the hint is appropriate.  We don't necessarily need ordering for something (MAX_PUSH_ID included), but we benefit from it for some uses.  We don't need to be clear about what has ordering requirements and what doesn't, but this is helpful.

Author: It also (IIUC) doesn't preclude use of non-STREAM QUIC frames for future HTTP work (datagram?).

If a server presents a valid certificate and proof that it controls the
corresponding private key, then a client will accept a secured TLS session with
that server as being authoritative for all origins with the "https" scheme and a
host identified in the certificate.  The host must be listed either as the CN
field of the certificate subject or as a dNSName in the subjectAltName field of

> the certificate; see {{!RFC6125}}.  For a host that is an IP address, the client

Reviewer 2: Can we just leave this text alone in the editorial PR, since there are already issue(s) tracking it?

Author: Okay, will attempt to revert.

> validated either as a CN-ID or a DNS-ID in the certificate; see {{!RFC6125}}.

Reviewer: IMPORTANT: I'm not sure that we need to elevate CN-ID to MUST.  In doing so, we invalidate what CABF has done: 7.1.4.2.2 clause a of the Baseline Requirements marks subject:commonName as deprecated and discouraged.  My understanding (which I can confirm) is that browsers do not use CN-ID (concretely, the CN field of the certificate subject) and so we might want to just mention the dNSName type of subjectAltName here.  We can *mention* that some clients might use subject:commonName, but that this is a deprecated practice.

I realize that this likely breaks new ground for the RFC series, and it likely needs more disucsion, but maybe we can keep up with the times with this document.

(I apologize for not having caught this earlier; I think that this is copied from elsewhere and that too needs a refresh.)

Author: Yes, I noticed that as well but was not about to slip it into an "editorial" PR :)

Thanks for filing the issue; I will reference it from my ballot position.
There was another point relating to certificate validation that took me a while to collect my thoughts on and write up, and I want to go over the writeup again before balloting, so I didn't get a chance to mention this topic yet.

MUST verify that the address appears as an iPAddress in the subjectAltName field

> of the certificate.

Reviewer: Can we fix this sentence to parallel the previous?

> A host identified by an IP address MUST be validated using an iPAddress subjectAltName in a certificate; see {{ref}}.

Author: Sure, I'll try to remember to do that (but it may not happen until after the telechat).

Author: @MikeBishop do we need to propagate this to the issue tracking the previous text so it gets considered there?

Reviewer 2: I think by delegating to SEMANTICS and Martin's incoming PR there in #4808, we don't need this text in HTTP/3.

Pseudo-header fields are only valid in the context in which they are defined.
Pseudo-header fields defined for requests MUST NOT appear in responses;
pseudo-header fields defined for responses MUST NOT appear in requests.

> Pseudo-header fields MUST NOT appear in trailer sections.

Author: IIUC the "trailers" vernacular refers to trailer fields, not trailer sections.  The preceding change was made since I was already looking at "trailers" usage, though the existing text doesn't seem incorrect in its own right.

will need to open a new HTTP/3 connection for new requests if the existing
connection has been idle for longer than the idle timeout negotiated during the
QUIC handshake, and SHOULD do so if approaching the idle timeout; see Section

> 10.1.1 of {{QUIC-TRANSPORT}}.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
10.1 of {{QUIC-TRANSPORT}}.
```
10.1.1 deals with transport-level liveness testing before sending data, which isn't contemplated here.

Author: FWIW I proposed 10.1.1 specifically for "SHOULD [use a new connection] if approaching the idle timeout", which I did not see discussed elsewhere in the section.  But I will revert it back.

A QUIC stream provides reliable in-order delivery of bytes, but makes no
guarantees about order of delivery with regard to bytes on other streams. On the

> wire, data (HTTP frames)
> is framed into QUIC STREAM frames, but this framing is invisible to

Reviewer: I think that use of "data" is confusing, but I might prefer:

```suggestion
wire, HTTP frames are
framed into QUIC STREAM frames, but this framing is invisible to
```

Author: That looks better than what I have, but "foo frames are framed into" is also a bit awkward, so I'll leave it open for a bit.

Reviewer 2: How about...
```suggestion
wire, the stream data containing HTTP frames
is carried by QUIC STREAM frames, but this framing is invisible to
```
I want to be careful to avoid the implication that HTTP frames need to be contained within a single STREAM frame.

A pair of unidirectional streams is used rather than a single bidirectional
stream.  This allows either peer to send data as soon as it is able.  Depending
on whether 0-RTT is enabled on the QUIC connection, either client or server
might be able to send stream data first after the cryptographic handshake

> completes.

Author: With 0-RTT the client can send data before the cryptographic handshake completes.

| Reserved       | Yes            | Yes            | Yes         | {{frame-reserved}}       |
{: #stream-frame-mapping title="HTTP/3 Frames and Stream Type Overview"}

The SETTINGS frame can only occur as the first frame of a Control stream; this

> is indicated in {{stream-frame-mapping}} with a (1).  Specific guidance

Author: I assume there was more than one such frame at some earlier time.

description.  A frame payload that contains additional bytes after the
identified fields or a frame payload that terminates before the end of the
identified fields MUST be treated as a connection error of type
H3_FRAME_ERROR; see {{errors}}.  In particular, redundant length encodings MUST

> be verified to be self-consistent.

Author: We do call this out in Section 10.8 already, so I don't mind if we skip this.  It might be worth reiterating, though, given how many vulnerabilities this sort of thing has caused.

Reviewer: If this is a forward reference, then include that reference;

```suggestion
be verified to be self-consistent; see {{frame-parsing}}.
```

Author: Good call; I wrote this before I got that far in the doc to know there was a forward reference to make.

CANCEL_PUSH Frame {
  Type (i) = 0x3,
  Length (i),

>   Push ID (..8),

Author: I was a bit torn on this one, since the unrestricted form matches the generic frame spec more clearly.  OTOH, we have other frame specifications that just put their own specific stuff here, so I figured I would see what we thought.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Push ID (i),
```

This is just a varint.  I don't know why this was `(..)` rather than `(i)`.  Probably my fault.

Author: Good point; this is better.

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
{: #fig-ext-settings title="SETTINGS Frame"}

> An implementation MUST ignore the Value for any SETTINGS identifier it does

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
An implementation MUST ignore any parameter with an identifier it does
```
@LPardue's suggestion looks reasonable.

> not understand.

Reviewer 3: This sentence reads weird with or without the suggestion, identifier and value are independent parts of a Setting. The text before the drawing uses "parameter" a bit. Perhaps it is clearer to say something like 

"An implementation MUST ignore parameters with an unknown identifier"?

| --------------------------------- | ---------- | ---------------------------------------- | ---------------------- |
| Name                              | Value      | Description                              | Specification          |
| --------------------------------- | ---------- | ---------------------------------------- | ---------------------- |

> | H3_NO_ERROR                       | 0x100      | No error                                 | {{http-error-codes}}   |

Author: As noted in the commit message, this table was the only place in the document that I noticed leading hex zeros.

Other than these issues, frame type HTTP/2 extensions are typically portable to
QUIC simply by replacing Stream 0 in HTTP/2 with a control stream in HTTP/3.
HTTP/3 extensions will not assume ordering, but would not be harmed by ordering,

> and would be portable to HTTP/2 in the reverse manner.

Reviewer: or just:

```suggestion
and are expected to be portable to HTTP/2.
```

corner cases around synchronization of changes.

Some transport-level options that HTTP/2 specifies via the SETTINGS frame are
superseded by QUIC transport parameters in HTTP/3.  The HTTP-level setting that

> is retained in HTTP/3 has the same value as in HTTP/2.  The superseded

Author: (As above, I assume there used to be more.)
